Scrapwood Challenge Scrapwood Challenge
It's junk it's crap it's firewood
But some of the wood is good
I will start choosing from the pieces
I don't need a project today
It is a coffee table
As you can see
There is still enough laurel camphor left
For a few challenges scrap wood yet
I'm planning one flat edge over all the pieces
And then tear the opposite edge
On a table saw
I am making a segmented episode
Or off the schedule
This requires 18 pieces
And cutting waste will come in handy for another project
I'm going through and cutting one end
On each piece at 10 degrees
When you're all done
I also cut a 10 degree angle on the other end
I join slices with floating tongues
So here I am delineating positions
From mortises
Now I am making a discount
For a piece of plywood to sit
I make a pass then cut a little bit and go again
I have made about five assists in total
Carry on the router bit
He thrives on the table
So I had to raise the job a little
This smiley face dance is going to help me cut the bevel
On the underside of the ring
It maintains an insurance ring against jig
But it is allowed to transform into a raised blade
I reclaimed this plywood
From some shelves that were recently pulled down
It is of excellent quality and very flat
I just need to remove the vinyl
And glue off for the first time
The middle of the table will be Kumiko
Then I'm going to pour epoxy resin into it
If you are not sure what Kumiko is
Then around a stick you will know
Next I need to fill in the center with Kumiko
It's coming along but not just ready yet
To put a cup of coffee on
But as it is a new day
I am ready for a good and strong cup of coffee
And while I'm making this
I thank the coffee business
To take care of today's video
If you are struggling to find the perfect coffee
From the grocery store
Business solves that by tying you to fresh coffee
Top roasting to satisfy your taste buds
Take this competition to refine your selection
Find the perfect coffee
This is a lot for your style and palate
If you like medium light or dark roast
Beans or ground
Or even the equipment you use to make your own coffee
Help to find a perfect match
I personally love strong coffee
That tastes like coffee
But if you prefer your coffee with a hint of nothing else
Then this contest has covered you for that as well
After selecting your coffee
You can choose the delivery frequency
It will appear at your door
Fresh from the toaster
Then adjusted and repeated
The rate of those matches
So the trade can continue to delight you with the coffee that you will love
100 first viewers click on the link in the description
You will get 30% off the first bag
With free shipping included
And thanks again for trading to sponsor today's video
Now I will start preparing your board
To make bars for Kumiko
Beautifully clean ribbons come off
And you just need a pass from the plane
To be cleaned on either side
And to get them to the final thickness
I am now painting Kumiko with water based lacquer
To shut them down before they get cut and assembled
I gave them a few coats and sanded them between
I was about to make a dance to make Kumiko
Then I found a video by Mike Farrington
Show exactly how to do it
I will put a link to this in the description
It turns out the dance is pretty much the same
As my sled wedgie
I just need to add a groove to get a key
The video also shows Mike the whole process
How to make this kumiko style
The network consists of two different pieces
The first one is cut to the nearest fence
And about a third of the way to strip
Then she flipped over to cut on either side
For another type of tape
Blade needs rise to two thirds
Strip height
The first step of its kind is made on the nearest fence
Then the same position is cut again
But on the farthest fence
There are twice that number
From these second strips as the first
I stamp the inner edges of the loop with water-based varnish
Ready to pour epoxy for later
But also use this glue down the kumiko grid
A few pieces of the network broke off and need repair
From when you cut it to fit the ring
Now I need a lot of small bits of kumiko
To fill the grid and to be around 400 pieces
Every piece in this style is exactly the same
I go through and cut I
Point 30 degrees one on the end of each piece
Then I go through all of them again
I place a 60 degree point on the other end
I am using water based varnish again
Glue the pieces but also to seal the joints
Air bubbles would help prevent
When pouring the epoxy
While full triangles are in the center
Took some time
All broken triangles around the edge
He took for much longer
I had to match each piece separately
And the glue in its place
I started sanding them with a size
But I found it easier to hone them
Cut with a chisel and a Kumiko dance
With the closest matching angle
This is the first time that epoxy has flowed in this kind of quantity
But his hope is to work with it
Although I closed the plywood to the edge of the ring
She did seep through in a few places
So I just had to put the clamp on
And tighten those areas up
It's the next day the epoxy still setup
So I will start at the legs
I decided to have a bit of practice with a chisel deviation
I definitely need a lot more
But it is a very fun tool to use
The legs are very skinny
This is what I was looking for
I also want her to be very slender and elegant
To match with Kumiko
Any thing that chunky would spoil the look of the table perfectly
And it only has to hold a few cups of coffee
The legs are done
Now you don't need to make two bars to make it
These rims would have been easier to make
On saw miter before I glued the pieces together
They are not even necessary
Because it will not appear
But I couldn't help myself
So I just did it with a block plane
Epoxy is set
And yet it can start on sandbar
I do not want glossy finish
Satin finish is what I am after
So I will go through Freek
Until I get to the end that I love
I am very happy with only 400 finished
But I will not go one more and try 600
And see how that looks
I'm super happy with how you turned out
I can improve on a few things
But I know next time
But overall I am very very happy with it
Thanks again for the fairs to take care of the video
And don't forget to check it out
Hope you enjoyed the video
If done please like and subscribe
thanks for watching
And I'll see you on the next one